Previously on from...
Boyd. are you seriously okay
with him taking magic mushrooms
that he found in a haunted forest?
If there are answers in his head.
we need to get them out.
Okay are you ready for this?
Fuck no.
She's making a golem.
It's a giant made of Clay.
It protects people. It's a champion.
That thing I carried
inside me. I still feel it.
It goes both ways.
He feels how afraid I am.
But making this. it makes me feel strong.
I thought his yellow suit was funny.
He came in a car. just like the rest of us.
But he wasn't like us.
When I found mom out
by the bottle tree. I saw him.
He was eating her.
My god. God.
I can't imagine what this is like for her.
- Wait!
- I'm coming!
Don't move. okay?
Where does it hurt?
I hurt my arm.
This could actually be
an instruction manual
on how to save my dad.
Fuck! It didn't fucking work!
I need to find the lake of tears.
My dad told me it's here.
Maybe once I find it.
it can make him better.
Mom?
I'm telling you. those are bodies.
We should pull 'em in.
Are you insane?
Something floats up from
the bottom of nightmare lake
and the first thing you
wanna do is drag it ashore?
You may run things
back at colony house.
but we all get a say here.
Look. we have to sleep here tonight.
Even if we took off running right now.
we'd never make it
back to town before dark.
I don't know about you. but I
would feel a whole lot better
knowing who or what
just floated to the surface of this lake.
She's right.
You're quiet.
What do you think?
Let's pull 'em in.
Come on!
I got it.
Jeez.
Now what?
Get it up on land.
Okay.
I'm sorry we couldn't save you.
I really wanted it to be the lake of tears.
I know.
Mom?
Yeah?
Are we gonna be okay?
I hope so.
Hey. Boyd.
Boyd?
I think the mushrooms kicked in.
Jade?
It's a little more direct than I expected.
Okay.
Jesus!
Fuck!
Jade! Whoa! Whoa!
Jade! Jade! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Hey!
Look. there's nothing there.
Nothing there.
God.
This may not have
been such a great idea.
Hey. maybe we just... maybe
we go see kristi and we just...
no. no. No. No.
I have to do this. I have to do this.
But I need you.
I need you to be my anchor. my guide.
You need to tell me what's
real and. you know. what isn't.
And we need a safe word.
something that you can say
if things start to. you
know. go off the rails;
something that'll... Bring me back.
Okay. safe word.
What's it gonna be?
Capricorn.
Capricorn? Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
Let's go get weird.
All right.
All right. where do we start?
We go this way.
You just take nice deep breaths. okay?
You're gonna do great.
- 'Kay. ready?
- Wait. wait. wait.
May... maybe we don't
have to do this. I mean...
Maybe we should wait. It doesn't...
it really doesn't hurt
nearly as much as it did.
I know you're scared. but
if we don't reset this bone.
you're not gonna heal properly.
and then. we're gonna
have much bigger problems
than we can handle here. okay?
Okay.
Just breathe.
Okay. We'll go on the count of three.
And I need you to take a
nice. big deep breath in.
Ready?
Big breath.
One...
Sorry. I know that was the worst part.
I just thought it'd be
better if we did it quick.
You're okay.
Do you have the brace?
No. it's in the ambulance.
I'll be right back.
You did great.
Hey. you cut your hair.
It looks nice.
Thanks.
It's a long story.
They're dolls.
Jesus.
What are you doing?
Making sure there's no more surprises.
Why would someone
put those in the lake?
Shit.
What?
There's only one reason I can think of
that people put life-sized
dolls full of stuffing outside.
Scarecrows.
You put them in the field
to scare the birds away.
What if the reason these were in the lake
is to keep something else down there...
From coming out?
You okay?
Yeah. I'm okay.
I'm okay.
So... So. what now?
Jade!
What?
What exactly is the plan?
What? Do we just walk
around the forest all day.
waiting for the trees to start talking?
What are we looking for?
You're right.
About what?
I haven't asked the
question! We need to ask...
The right question. set
the-the right intention.
Okay. I got this.
Show me what I used to know...
that I can't remember.
Show me what's in
here that'll help us leave.
Do you hear that?
No.
God.
What's wrong? What do you see?
Something I'd forgotten.
It's me when I was 12 years-old.
It's the day my grandmother died.
I don't understand.
She asked me to play for her. so I-I did.
I... I played all day.
And at some point. I... I knew she...
she just wasn't in the room anymore.
But I couldn't look at
her; I just kept playing.
'cause I knew. the moment I stopped.
she was really gone.
So. I just played and played and played.
Goddammit! God!
Goddammit. this isn't what I asked for!
I wanna remember
why we're stuck here!
I wanna remember how to get home!
- I don't want this!
- No. hey. Jade. Jade. Jade. Jade.
It's okay.
I wanna go back.
I just wanna go back! I wanna go back!
Shit.
How did you get here?
Jade?
Jesus!
Talk to me.
He... it's the guy from...
Fuck!
Where is he?
Where did he go? He was... anghkooey.
Jade!
Anghkooey.
I fucking heard you!
Stop. Stop playing that song!
Jade?
I'm gonna need an update.
Some asshole I saw nailed
to a tree out at the settlement
wants me to drink the
same skull of blood he's been
schlepping around
with him since we met!
- And he keeps saying...
- Anghkooey.
Doesn't that mean "remember"?
Yes!
So. drink it!
Easy for you to say.
Jade?
The blood is not real.
Well. it looks real enough.
Hey. maybe he's trying to tell
you how to get your answers.
Anghkooey.
Don't drink it.
What?
Jade...
the blood isn't real.
Goddammit.
You good?
Hey. whoa. whoa. whoa.
Hey! What's... what's... Jade!
Come in.
Hey.
Wow!
I'm really... I'm starting
to see the shape now.
Did you need something?
Yeah. I... I just...
I wanted to say I'm sorry.
Earlier. I should have tried to...
Listen more. instead of reacting.
We're strongest when
we back each other up.
and I was not doing that.
I got scared and I
should've. backed you up.
That's all.
Thank you. Kenny.
Was there something else?
It's okay. you can ask.
You said you were still
connected to that thing.
What does that feel like?
Terrifying... In a way I can't really explain.
Every night. I...
I go to that window. and I look outside.
knowing that. one of these nights.
I'm gonna see him standing there...
staring back at me.
What happens then?
I don't know.
Listen. if you need...
if you need anything...
Thank you. Kenny.
Henry.
Kenny. hey.
Is that from the bar?
Yeah. I just...
I keep a little stash on hand. you know.
just to take the edge off.
Okay.
Help yourself.
No. thanks. I'm good.
Hey.
What's taking so long?
Did you find the splint?
Hey.
What's wrong?
I'm fine. Yeah. I just needed a minute.
Found it.
- I'm fine.
- Baby... Hey!
- I'm fine. okay?
- You're not fine!
Kristi. leave it. I'm good.
Fuck.
Just. once in a while. I...
Stop and think about the types of things
that have become normal for us.
I mean. we're sitting here.
packing life-sized dolls
full of rocks because we
think that they're gonna...
Stop thinking about it.
Think about somethin' else.
Think about getting back to your wife.
We need to get these
fuckers back in the water.
Do you really think there's
something bad in the water?
I think I'd rather not find out.
Thanks.
Tabitha. can you help
me with something?
Yeah.
- Over here.
- Yeah.
Okay. I saw that look on your face.
What's going on?
Something about those dolls j...
I don't know. it was familiar.
I don't know.
- Good familiar or bad familiar?
- I don't know!
I don't... don't know.
I think I've seen them before.
Okay. Try. try to remember.
I'm trying. Donna! I'm try... I'm trying.
All I see are. like. little
pieces and their faces and...
It's... it's weird?
Is there something in that lake
that we need to be afraid of?
I don't know.
We're ready to drag 'em back in.
Okay. let's do it.
Just grab 'em.
Okay.
Come on.
Yep.
Careful. Patty. Careful.
Yeah.
Whoa!
Hey... Hey. what does that mean?
That I'm gonna see things
that I don't wanna see?
Hey.
Answer me.
Hey!
Hello?
Hey. Boyd. did you...?
Boyd?
Boyd!
Don't do that.
Don't fucking leave me like that.
I didn't.
I've been here the whole time.
Hey... Are you good?
Yeah. I'm... I'm... I'm good.
You're sure?
Jade. we can stop.
If this is too much. we can still go back.
This way.
Jade.
Jade! Shit.
Boyd... Where are we?
We're outside colony house.
What do you see?
I warned you.
The answers you sought
come wrapped in painful truths.
Dad?
I-I don't think you should
look at that anymore.
I just... I... I just...
What... what... what do
you do here... For... for fun?
What?
Well. there's so much
time just sitting around.
worrying if you're
gonna survive the night.
You can't forget to live.
You... you have to live. son.
Come on. let's... let's... whoa!
No. I'm fine. I'm okay. Just. just... Dad?
Just... Dad!
You got any cards?
What?
Cards. To... to play. You got cards?
Dad.
Maybe in the kitchen.
What are you makin'?
That's nice!
- Dad...
- See?
That's... good for you.
These guys are having fun.
Is he okay?
Yeah.
Does this work?
Ooh. look at that.
Maybe you should go lie down.
Lie down? I don't wanna
lie down! I wanna...
You remember this one?
You... right?
Dad. stop.
You remember when we used to play?!
We used to sit at the
piano and you would...
I'd give you a note. That was your note.
And you... you were so little!
And... but your mom.
she had such a beautiful
voice. You remember?
- Dad. please.
- You must remem...
come on! We... we'd sit
there and we'd talk about
how we'd all go 'round
the world someday
and see all the beautiful
things and we'd be...
- Shh!
- Come on!
Hey. Henry. can we...?
No! No!
Who the fuck are you to tell me?
Do you know what he did?
What he did to my wife?
Henry. please.
Let's take it upstairs. right?
Vic... Vic... Victor. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean... I'm...
I'm sorry. I'm sorry!
- I'm sorry!
- Okay. okay. okay!
- Okay. let's - let's go.
No. No. you... you... you don't know...
you don't know what he did.
Victor... Show him the picture.
Show him the picture of what he did.
What's wrong with you?!
- Show him what he did!
- Okay. okay. okay.
What's the fire for?
Hold on.
You telling me you didn't
bring the marshmallows?
Are we gonna be okay?
Of course we are.
'Cause I don't want Julie to be alone.
Tell you what.
first thing in the morning.
we're gonna get up.
grab our packs. and get
the heck outta here. Okay?
Go on.
Get in the cabin.
I like it when you're here.
It's just not as scary when you're around.
Randall.
Listen... listen.
The one time you tried doing something
that would have actually
proved it was real. it didn't work!
This isn't about me or the bookmark.
'Kay? This is about you and
you being scared of those ruins.
Are you serious?
You're a fucking coward. Randall.
And you're a stubborn little child
who doesn't know what
the fuck's in front of her face.
Really? And what is that?
This place is fucking with your head
because it knows how
much you miss your dad!
No. You're wrong.
I watched you have
two seizures in two days.
All right? You're literally
frying your own brain.
So. why don't you tell
me what's more likely:
That you're traveling
through chapters of a story
or that one of these days.
you're gonna have a seizure
- that doesn't stop?
- I don't care!
That is a risk I am willing to take!
Then. you're a moron.
And if your dad was here right
now he'd be fucking stunned
at how goddamn stupid you are.
You're only angry at me right
now because you know I'm right.
I'm fine.
You're clearly not okay.
Okay. I was having a moment. that's all!
That was way more than
just a moment. marielle!
Okay. so. this place has
never gotten to you before?
- My god!
- Really?
You haven't just need a
minute to freak the fuck out?
It is not a big deal.
- Mari!
- Just give it a rest. kristi!
Sorry.
It's okay.
Mari!
What do you see?
It's the people from my hallucinations.
Why are they here?
Why were they playing that song?
You know why.
They're all me.
These were the lives that I lived here.
Some of them... And many more.
Look at them closely. What do you see?
None of them are ripped apart.
They weren't killed by the...
by the creatures in the woods!
These men were murdered.
By who?
You know who.
Minnows in a shark's net?
What does that...
My god.
They were murdered
by the people in town.
What? Jade. who are you
talking... just... gimme a...
it's always the same.
Once they learn the
truth about who you are.
that it was you that the
children were calling for.
first. they blame you.
then. they hate you.
eventually they kill you.
And Tabitha?
For Tabitha. it's worse.
But. look...
If I die every time...
What are you saying?
Are you saying there's no way home?
How... how does this help?
How do I stop it from
happening this time?
Answer me!
Jade. Hey. Jade. Jade.
Okay. let's back him up this way.
Good?
Okay. Two. three.
Okay.
All right.
Are you gonna be all right. Victor?
Yeah. I'll take care of him.
Hey. Victor. What...?
What was he talking about?
The man in the yellow
suit... Ate my mother.
But I never should have told him.
Hello?
Where the hell did he go?
Hey. can we just take a minute here?
Why the fuck were you talking about
people murdering you out there?
Hey.
Over here.
What are we doing?
Why are we down here?
Hey!
- Hey!
- Give me a hand!
Give me a hand! Come on!
Boyd...
Do you see a door in that wall?
Yup.
Here you go.
Thank you. Sophia.
Can you try to tell us what
happened in the ambulance?
The radio came on.
Okay. And...?
I heard them screaming.
Who's... who's them?
Everyone.
Every single person
who's ever died here.
That's what it was like for me
when we were in the chamber.
All I could hear. all I could feel was...
The suffering of every single
person who has ever died here.
I kept telling myself it wasn't real.
that it couldn't be.
But when the radio came
on. it was like all that pain
and horror just shot through me again.
You're a prophet.
What?
Maybe god has chosen
you to hear their suffering.
Okay. I can't do this.
- Mari...
- No.
Mari. wait. Just... Wait.
I've seen this happen here before.
This place. it gets in
people's heads and...
this is different. kristi.
There is something old
here. something... ancient.
And it's feeding off our
suffering and it doesn't stop.
Even after we die. we
are still trapped here.
And we never get to leave.
Sometimes. I forget he's just a kid.
He's always seemed so grown up.
He's always been like that.
Jim used to call him the little professor.
So. curious and full of questions.
Maybe he can figure out
what's in the goddamn lake.
Stop it!
Sorry.
How much longer till sunrise?
Five minutes less than the
last time someone asked.
Just try to get some sleep.
You're joking. right?
All we have to do is
hold on until the morning.
Then. we can get the hell outta here
and back to the
nightmare we understand.
We've got a long walk
in the morning. so...
What the hell is that?
Tabitha?
I know that sound.
The dolls... They were smaller.
They were mine. I
was playing with them.
What is she talking about?
Shh. shh.
Mom?
What else?
A man; He was angry.
He came and took them from me.
He said they gave him nightmares.
so he threw them in the lake.
But one day. the man
died. and his nightmares...
His nightmares came out of the lake.
My god. Donna. we have to go.
- We have to go right now.
- Tabitha. we can't.
Donna! No. you don't
understand! You don't understand!
We're not safe here! We can't stay here.
No. we have a talisman on the door.
No. no. no. talismen won't
protect us. not from this!
How do you know that? How
the fuck do you know any of that?!
Hey. hey. hey.
Go! Go! Run!
Go. go! Come on. go!
- Ethan!
- Go! Get out!
Hey! Get off him!
Donna!
Ellis!
Where's Patty?
She... she's not with you?
No!
Shit!
- Ellis!
- Donna. please!
Mom!
It's okay.
No!
Hey! Come on!
We gotta go! Go!
We have to run.
No matter what happens.
we have to keep... Donna!
- Donna!
- Donna. no!
Hey.
Donna? You okay?
Yeah. Yeah. yeah.
Whoa!
What just happened?
I remembered.
I remembered how to hurt them.
Fucking... Jesus!
Boyd!
The fuck are you?
Okay.
What is this?
Okay...
Fuck.
Boyd? Boyd?!
Boyd?
Shh! Hey! Shh!
Hey. Jade. we have to go.
We cannot be down here.
But this isn't real! This can't be real!
- Jade!
- What?
Listen to me.
Capricorn. Okay?
Capricorn. This is real.
You asked me to be your
anchor. so fucking listen to me.
No. Boyd. We're just in colony house.
The tunnels aren't this close.
Close?
We've been walking down
that creepy hallway for...
this stops now!
Let's go.
Okay. Okay.
Okay. All right.
Hey!
I will drag you outta
here if I fucking have to!
Okay. All right. Okay.
This is where the
children were sacrificed.
How does knowing that get us home?
Tabitha and I. we
already tried to save them.
We've tried so many times.
Is it... is it... is there something here?
Is there something. something we need?
Tell me how we save them
when we've already failed!
Hi. Jade.
You should have listened to Boyd.
No!
But you were never really
the smart one. were you?
No! No! No. no. no. no!
No. no. no!
No! No!
Get the fuck off of me!
No. no!
Get off!
No!
Anghkooey.
Jade! Jade! Hey. hey. hey!
You okay?
What the fuck are we doing here?
- What?
- How did we get here?
What... what? Hey.
How the fuck did we get here?!
Jade. you never left.
No. no. no. We were in the tunnels.
No. you've been sitting here for hours.
You were at the window... You sat down.
and that's it. You... No. no. no. No. no.
There was more. There
was... there was a lot more.
I know where they are.
What?
I know what we have to do to go home.
I know how we can save the children.